How to Make Toast in an Oven
Co-authored by wikiHow Staff | Video Team Tested  | References
Updated: April 21, 2020
Explore this Article
Slow-Toasting Bread in the Oven
Quick-Toasting Using the Broiler
Questions & Answers
Tips and Warnings
Things You'll Need
Related Articles
References
Article Summary
It's no fun standing next to a toaster making toast for a crowd. To speed things up and make toast without a toaster, use your oven! For the fastest method, lay a few slices of bread below the broiler element and heat them until they're lightly toasted. If you need to make a sheet full of toast, lay slices of bread on a sheet and bake them until they're crisp on both sides. The slow-toasted bread won't be as crunchy, but you can make a larger amount of toast.


 
Method
1
Slow-Toasting Bread in the Oven
Image titled Make Toast in an Oven Step 7
1
Lay slices of bread on a baking sheet. Get out a rimmed baking sheet and arrange as many pieces of bread as you like in a single layer on the sheet. It's fine if the slices touch each other, but don't overlap them or they won't toast properly.[1]
Image titled Make Toast in an Oven Step 6
2
Move a rack to the middle of the oven and preheat the oven to 350 °F (177 °C). Position a rack so it's in the center before you turn the oven on. The hot air will circulate around the bread better if the sheet is in the middle. This helps the bread toast evenly.[2]
Image titled Make Toast in an Oven Step 8
3
Put the sheet in the oven and heat the bread for 5 minutes. Keep the oven door closed so the hot air circulates around the slices and cook them until they begin to dry out a little on the top.[3]
If you're toasting frozen slices of bread, add an extra 1 minute to the heating time.
Tip: For extra-crunchy toast, brush the bread with melted butter before you toast it. The butter flavors the bread and helps it crisp in the oven.


4
Flip the toast over and heat it for 5 more minutes. Wear oven mitts to take the sheet out of the oven and use tongs to flip over each slice of bread. Return the pan to the oven and cook the bread for 5 more minutes so they're toasted on the other side as well.[4]

 
Image titled Make Toast in an Oven Step 10
5
Take the toast out of the oven and butter it. Turn off the oven and take the sheet out. Spread softened butter over each slice and serve them immediately. If you prefer, spread jam, honey, cheese, or avocado over the toast instead.[5]
Toast has the best texture right after you make it, but you can store it in an airtight container for up to 1 day.

Method
2
Quick-Toasting Using the Broiler
Image titled Make Toast in an Oven Step 1
1
Lay slices of bread on the rack below the broiler. Adjust the oven rack so it's about 3 inches (7.6 cm) below the broiler's heating element. Then, place as many slices of bread as you want to toast directly onto the rack.[6]
Leave at least 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) of space between each slice of bread so they heat evenly.


2
Turn the broiler to "Low." If your broiler has several settings, choose the lowest heat setting. If your broiler doesn't have different settings, simply turn the broiler on. Wait until you've put the bread under the broiler before turning it on. It's also important to stay next to the broiler while toasting the bread because it can burn quickly.[7]

 
Image titled Make Toast in an Oven Step 3
3
Broil the toast for 60 to 90 seconds. Heat the bread until it looks golden brown on top or as toasted as you like. Keep the door open so you can watch the bread as it broils.[8]
If your broiler won't operate with the door open, close the door but check the toast after it's broiled for 1 minute.

 


4
Use tongs to flip the bread over and broil it for another 60 to 90 seconds. Wear oven mitts to pull the rack with the toast away from the broiler element. Flip each slice over and push the rack back under the element. Then, heat the bread until it's golden brown on the other side.[9]
Avoid using plastic tongs close to the broiler since the heat may damage the utensil.
Tip: If you like your toast very crispy and dark, broil it for closer to 2 minutes on each side.
Image titled Make Toast in an Oven Step 5
5
Remove the toast and butter it or add your favorite toppings. Turn off the burner and use tongs to remove the toast from the oven rack. Set the toast on a plate and butter it. If you prefer, top the toast with jam, avocado, a poached egg, or bruschetta.[10]
Although you can store leftover toast in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 1 day, it will become stale and chewy the longer it's stored.
